README.md, before:

# Mina zkApp: Eth-processor

## How to build

```sh
npm run build
```

## Configuration

Env vars (create a .env file):

```
MINA_RPC_NETWORK_URL=
SENDER_PRIVATE_KEY=
ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY=
TX_FEE=

ZKAPP_PRIVATE_KEY=
ZKAPP_ADDRESS=

NETWORK=
```

- **MINA_RPC_NETWORK_URL**: Mina network RPC endpoint URL.
- **SENDER_PRIVATE_KEY**: private key of the transaction sender.
- **ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY**: private key for administrative control operations.
- **TX_FEE**: transaction fee to be used when submitting transactions.

- **ZKAPP_PRIVATE_KEY**: private key for the zkApp account. Will be generated by `npm run deploy` if not provided and written to `.env.nori-eth-processor`.
- **ZKAPP_ADDRESS**: deployed address of the zkApp contract. Will be generated by `npm run deploy` and written to `.env.nori-eth-processor`.

- **NETWORK**: specifies the target network (e.g., `mainnet`, `devnet`, `litenet`).


## How to deploy (launch a new contract)

Make sure to clear your 01js cache, if it exists already.
Setup your `.env` file in the root directory. Set `MINA_RPC_NETWORK_URL=<url>`, `NETWORK=<mainnet or devnet or litenet>` and your `SENDER_PRIVATE_KEY`.

Run `npm run deploy`. After which `.env.nori-eth-processor` will have been created in the root directory of the project.

```
ZKAPP_PRIVATE_KEY=...
ZKAPP_ADDRESS=...
```

Copy these to your `.env` file.

## How to submit a new converter proof

Edit the `src/proofs/sp1Proof.json` file from the output you got from proof conversion (See [EthVerifier.ts](./src/EthVerifier.ts)). Note you only need to update `nodeVk.json` if the bridge head has ZK program VK has change, `p0.json` if the proof conversion program VK has changed and sp1Proof.json needs to change for each and every new eth transition proof output. Each time your bridge head ZK / proof conversion ZK has changed you would need to redeploy the Mina smart contract with `npm run deploy` (TODO).

Then finally: `npm run prove-and-submit`

## How to re-deploy (updating an existing contract)

This is a work in progress. Make sure to clear your 01js cache.

## Troubleshooting

There are constant problems with 01js's cache being stale. If you expect your projects vks have change, then remove the `~/.cache/o1js/` contents
before running `npm run deploy`.

## How to run tests

Obtain your SENDER_PRIVATE_KEY environment variable:

1. `npm install -g zkapp-cli`
2. `zk lightnet start`
3. `curl localhost:8181/acquire-account`
4. Put the `sk` in your `.env` file: SENDER_PRIVATE_KEY=......
5. Put `MINA_RPC_NETWORK_URL=http://localhost:8080/graphql` in your `.env` file.
6. Put `NETWORK=lightnet` in your `.env` file.

```sh
npm run test # all tests
npm run test -- -t "should perform a series of proof submissions" # run a specific test
npm run testw # watch mode
```

Note tests can hang after a 3rd round of proof computation. Try running them one by one like `npm run test --t <testName>` if this this is happening to you.

## How to run coverage

```sh
npm run coverage
```

## License

[Apache-2.0](LICENSE)

Commit message:

fix(codebase): using ephemeral folder for cache during vk hash baking procedure (to ensure a clean compile) and documenting the functionality

README.md, after:

# Mina zkApp: Eth-processor

## How to build

```sh
npm run build
```

## Configuration

Env vars (create a .env file):

```
MINA_RPC_NETWORK_URL=
SENDER_PRIVATE_KEY=
ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY=
TX_FEE=

ZKAPP_PRIVATE_KEY=
ZKAPP_ADDRESS=

NETWORK=
```

- **MINA_RPC_NETWORK_URL**: Mina network RPC endpoint URL.
- **SENDER_PRIVATE_KEY**: private key of the transaction sender.
- **ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY**: private key for administrative control operations.
- **TX_FEE**: transaction fee to be used when submitting transactions.

- **ZKAPP_PRIVATE_KEY**: private key for the zkApp account. Will be generated by `npm run deploy` if not provided and written to `.env.nori-eth-processor`.
- **ZKAPP_ADDRESS**: deployed address of the zkApp contract. Will be generated by `npm run deploy` and written to `.env.nori-eth-processor`.

- **NETWORK**: specifies the target network (e.g., `mainnet`, `devnet`, `litenet`).

## How to bake integrity hashes

When you have modified your programs (EthProcessor or EthVerifier), or updated any public inputs you depend on from other repositories e.g. the proof-conversion / bridge-head public outputs then you must recompile your programs and update the integrity hashes via the following command `npm run bake-vk-hashes` which will update the `src/integrity/<o1js-eth-program-name>.VkHash.json` files with the new ZK programs verification key hashes. These are verified against at runtime when running `npm run deploy` or `npm run prove-and-submit` are invoked (or via using the `compileContracts` api method) and will throw if during the compilation process, the o1js cache was corrupted and yielded different compile program verification keys than what was expected.

## How to deploy (launch a new contract)

Make sure to clear your o1js cache, if it exists already.
Setup your `.env` file in the root directory. Set `MINA_RPC_NETWORK_URL=<url>`, `NETWORK=<mainnet or devnet or litenet>` and your `SENDER_PRIVATE_KEY`.

Run `npm run deploy`. After which `.env.nori-eth-processor` will have been created in the root directory of the project.

```
ZKAPP_PRIVATE_KEY=...
ZKAPP_ADDRESS=...
```

Copy these to your `.env` file.

## How to submit a new converter proof

Edit the `src/proofs/sp1Proof.json` file from the output you got from proof conversion (See [EthVerifier.ts](./src/EthVerifier.ts)). Note you only need to update `nodeVk.json` if the bridge head has ZK program VK has change, `p0.json` if the proof conversion program VK has changed and sp1Proof.json needs to change for each and every new eth transition proof output. Each time your bridge head ZK / proof conversion ZK has changed you would need to redeploy the Mina smart contract with `npm run deploy` (TODO).

Then finally: `npm run prove-and-submit`

## How to re-deploy (updating an existing contract)

This is a work in progress. Make sure to clear your o1js cache.

## Troubleshooting

There are constant problems with o1js's cache being stale. If you expect your projects vks have change, then remove the `~/.cache/o1js/` contents
before running `npm run deploy`.

## How to run tests

Obtain your SENDER_PRIVATE_KEY environment variable:

1. `npm install -g zkapp-cli`
2. `zk lightnet start`
3. `curl localhost:8181/acquire-account`
4. Put the `sk` in your `.env` file: SENDER_PRIVATE_KEY=......
5. Put `MINA_RPC_NETWORK_URL=http://localhost:8080/graphql` in your `.env` file.
6. Put `NETWORK=lightnet` in your `.env` file.

```sh
npm run test # all tests
npm run test -- -t "should perform a series of proof submissions" # run a specific test
npm run testw # watch mode
```

Note tests can hang after a 3rd round of proof computation. Try running them one by one like `npm run test --t <testName>` if this this is happening to you.

## How to run coverage

```sh
npm run coverage
```

## License

[Apache-2.0](LICENSE)
